---
title: Japan is where it was at
author: Moldovanu Codin
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=552
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
My first car was a japanese one, a Mitsubishi Pajero Pinin, somewhat inspired by a Pajero and a kei car at the same time, a car styled by the famed Pininfarina. The car was regarded as a good off-roader and good city driver. It didn&#8217;t get amazing fuel autonomy and it wasn&#8217;t very fast despite being powered by a 2.0L petrol engine, however it did excel in other areas such as visibility and how remarkably easy it was to drive it. I am the owner of one such machine, an automatic transmission version in its full 5-door glory.

It was (and always will be, I guess) my first car and my parents got it for me while still in highschool (hi Mom and Dad!). I learned how to not crash into other people and how to take into account things like roll because of the high suspension. It also kept me safe when I wasn&#8217;t patient enough to give way to tons of people by sparing me of embarassing engine stalls during such impatient maneuvers. The car has a super nice differential that lets you choose between 4&#215;4 Low and High as well as a 2&#215;4 step in which only the rear wheels would get power. Suffice to say it&#8217;s the first car I ever did a burnout/donut/powerslide(?). Never had an accident, never touched something without my intention of doing so. I had fun in the car, with the car, I rescued people from the hell that is snow blocked roads and I rushed along the beach at sunset with it. All in all a great car for a starting driver.

I&#8217;ve been driving a Skoda Octavia 2FL 1.6TDI for some time now ans I&#8217;ve been assaulted with the luxury that comes with newer cars such as a CD player, cornering lights, remote window opening and dual zone climate control, not to mention the semi-sporty comfortable seats and the general comfiness of everything from the wheel to the shift knob to the armrest. I think I racked up about 40.000km on the Skoda so far, and I have only good things to say about it. It&#8217;s a great car, a reliable car and a non-thrilly car that will get you from point A to point B without trouble. On one occasion it (and I) managed to do 900kms with what was basically a paper-thin clutch on twisty and turny roads with great elevation differences. It did at one point stop running. I was doing 60 (just always assume I&#8217;m using the metric system) because of the green light shining in front of me, went through the intersection to the left, and had just started taking a loose right turn when it happened &#8211; right in the middle of a 6 lane road the engine trembled for a second and then it just stopped while I was still going with 50 km/h. I had to take a left turn pretty sharply to get to a safe place and call a Pajero to rescue me. Even so, the Škoda is still a great car and I heartfully recommend it to anyone who needs a reliable and nice car.

Some funny things the Škoda (and for this matter, all new cars) lacks though and I can&#8217;t really put my finger on it.

For example the A pillars (and the rest of them) are fat &#8211; extremely fat. This causes reduced visibility in favour of safety. The manufacturers have said that fat pillars give remarkable safety in case or car roll accidents, but the same manufacturers would know that it&#8217;s pretty damn hard to roll a 225/50/16 wheeled car that&#8217;s already low enough that it won&#8217;t gracefully go over a bloody speed bump.Why do it? If you do manage to achieve the nearly impossible and roll such a car then your health won&#8217;t benefit visibly from having fat pillars. Why do we have them on literally every car? I get the Dacia Logan &#8211; it&#8217;s a pretty heightened car and I can see how A pillars are a must, what&#8217;s the reason for fat A pillars on the BMW 5 Series? And don&#8217;t tell me it&#8217;s because of rigidity and handling reasons.

Car looks have been quite bland as well recently. Yes the new 3 Series is _sharper_ than the predecessor, but it is a 3 Series and should look the part. I&#8217;m talking about new cars. Manufacturers have been pushing for utility, leg space, safety, comfort &#8211; usually at a cost for the actual feeling of driving a 1.5ton petrol powered block of steel and everything that entitles. Yes the new Alfa is nice, but does it remind you that you&#8217;re a mere mortal?

My plead here is that most new cars give you too much of a sense of security and safety, they make you think you&#8217;re always in control and close to being a God while turning the handsewn 3 spoke leather wheel. Well newsflash &#8211; you&#8217;re not. Most people will be happy to own a Volkswagen Golf 7 because of the low fuel consumption and good reliability and that is perfectly fine. The Golf won&#8217;t make you feel like you&#8217;re walking on a thin marriage-like line in which the car treats you only as goof as you treat it. It won&#8217;t hurt you if you treat her wrong.

That&#8217;s why I&#8217;m the proud owner of a skinny pillar, loud, enviro