---
title: 'Re: NotPetya, NSA, Backlog of things that should’ve been said more'
author: Moldovanu Codin
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=572
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
Oh God, this is going to be a long and frustrating blog post &#8211; seemingly the only kind of posting I&#8217;ve been doing lately.

Things to address:

Kaspersky (and others) being _kinda_ required to show the source code of their products if &#8220;they want to continue doing business in the USA&#8221;, NotPetya, NATO considering NotPetya an &#8220;act of war&#8221;, NSA&#8217;s goddamn exploits and how if I were to exploit something I&#8217;d be in jail, PEOPLE NOT UPDATING SOFTWARE, how I won&#8217;t be able to ever get a US Visa.

First things first, and we&#8217;ll start with NotPetya, which requires a shitload of writing so prepare a cold brew and a pack of Marlboro.

#### RansomWare&#x2122;, brought to you by NSA.

In February 2017 a group named ShadowBrokers dumped a metric shitton of NSA baked hacking tools on the internet (after trying to make some cash and hilariously failing at it). This of course lead to people wearing hats of different colors to react in different ways, some quickly made up simple ransoming software, others created mining malware and so on.

The tools that were actually used to do damage mainly targeted Windows, and while at it, Windows installs that were not updated or not supported anymore. Microsoft patched most of the exploits comprised in the pack a month before the leak took place (presumably they&#8217;ve been tipped off regarding the whole shitstorm brewing).

A lot of sources say a lot of numbers, but the WannaCry attack based on the SMB exploit named ETERNALBLUE supposedly infected over 500.000 devices, IoT/PCs/etc.

Let&#8217;s expand on this for a bit. According to [this][1] Washington Post article the NSA had been using the EternalBlue exploit for 5 years prior to the moment when it was leaked, presumably for intelligence gathering and such. The annoying thing here is that we keep having to presume stuff, which isn&#8217;t that great in a time when you can Wikipedia literally anything. When a company&#8217;s servers suddenly die they generally keep a live page with updates on the process of recovering from the incident, while we (?) couldn&#8217;t expect the same from a government spying agency, I think we are entitled to some safety &#8211; even those of us not born in the &#8220;Land of the Free&#8221;. Holding such a major exploit a secret for 5 years shouldn&#8217;t even be studied from a morale or lack thereof point of view, especially when you consider that in that period of time tools have been crafted, tested and furthering the theory, those tools are infinitely more damaging than the exploit itself which requires knowledge to implement. More on this, that the NSA (supposedly) alerted Microsoft regarding the leak one month prior to it is a pretty dick move since SMB is a protocol used in all operating systems, and Windows users aren&#8217;t the only ones who don&#8217;t update their software, in my opinion this should&#8217;ve been cc&#8217;d to Linus, AppleHQ, and generally the heads of OS&#8217;s with the most market share, I seriously believe that they could&#8217;ve kept the secret while pushing some updates under a gag order. Yeah most people do have canaries but then again, not being a dickhead isn&#8217;t that difficult.

Anyway, it&#8217;s been a few months since the WannaCry malware hit the shelves and did some damage and now a new contender appears:

#### NotPetya

While WannaCry was something (via code analysis) that was made in a hurry on a park bench, NotPetya most definitely is not. F-Secure researchers are doing God&#8217;s work and you can [read up on their findings here][2].

This thing has been developed since February and it&#8217;s no skiddie job (for the exploit integration part), although the actual encrypting decrypting is a skiddie job according to F-Secure&#8217;s Andy Patel. Another thing worth mentioning is that it really hates Kaspersky and will brick your device if it finds it installed.

NotPetya is basically still a ransomware but with a different and much better implementation than WannaCry presented, which kinda&#8217; prompted different people to take different actions and this leads us to:

#### NATO&#8217;s considering NotPetya as an potential act of war

For some goddamn reason we&#8217;re doing this again, and we&#8217;re thinking that Russia did this (might have, might have not;)

 [1]: https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/technology/nsa-officials-worried-about-the-day-its-potent-hacking-tool-would-get-loose-then-it-did/2017/05/16/50670b16-3978-11e7-a058-ddbb23c75d82_story.html?utm_term=.255640b96bf7
 [2]: https://labsblog.f-secure.com/2017/06/29/petya-i-want-to-believe/